MeetUp Report

	Introduction to NodeJS - Rithm School

	



I have spent alot of time studying front end web development and I thought for my meetup I'd check out
NodeJS which is used in the backend. The meetup I found was being put on my Rithm School here in 
San Francisco called ((KnowNode - Introduction to NodeJS)).


What are the objectives of this meetup group?

Rithm School is one of the many different coding schools offered in San Francisco to become
a developer. They have a 4 month program that goes through front end development with html, css and javascript.
They also go through some full stack development with python, SQL and Flask and single page
applications with React and NodeJS. They work with you to prep for interviews to hopefully get
a developer position afterwards.

They offer meetups for a variety of events; learning react, javascript, github and NodeJS.



frequency they meet:
	They meetup anywhere from every week, to every few weeks talking about
	a range of subjects



------------------------

subject of the meeting you attended:

The meetup I went to was [https://www.meetup.com/rithmschool/events/248902841/] to Know Node: An Intro to Node.js & Express



We learned a little about NodeJS. NodeJS is a was to use javascript server side. 


What did we learn:

In the past javascript was primarily interpretted through browsers and still is, 
yet in addition it can now run on the computer aside from the web browser. 
NodeJS allows for javascript to be run on a
server and return the content to the client.

We ran a javascript file to listen for http requests on the localhost and made the request
from the browser

Learned a little about Express.js a javascript framework that makes it easier to make different routes.

Made Urls dynamic with params
Params are a way to pass different information from the browser 
search bar into the nodejs javascript file variable

when we type in localhost:3000/add/bobbyJoeBrown into the search bar
the server will pass bobbyJoeBrown into the name variable that can be used
in the js file later.

ctrl or command + L, in a web browser quickly takes you to the address bar


